Hayan Sim:
Hayan Sim is the CEO at the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering Foundation. He hosts online chats to explore topical issues that are important for engineering and society. The overarching goal of the Royal Academy of Engineering is to harness the power of engineering to build a sustainable society and an inclusive economy. Sim has been exploring critical technologies such as Quantum Technologies, semiconductors, engineering biology, artificial intelligence, and future telecoms through a miniseries of critical conversations.

Malik Satia:
Malik Satia is an Academy fellow and the Chief Technology Officer at Erikson. He has over 33 years of experience in telecommunications, starting from the 2G era. His current focus is on 5G technology development. He believes that 5G will enhance mobile broadband experiences, enabling immersive experiences for users with applications such as augmented reality and virtual reality. Additionally, he sees 5G as a key driver of digital transformation across various industries, including manufacturing, utilities, smart cities, and transportation, due to its high speed, low latency, and high capacity connectivity.

Professor Dimitro Simidu:
Professor Dimitro Simidu is an Academy Fellow and a professor of high performance networks at the University of Bristol. He leads a large research center with about 200 academics and researchers working across a number of technologies, including IoT, wireless, optical, cloud physical infrastructure, and cloud services. As a researcher, he identifies himself as a systems person, focusing on network architectures and end-to-end network performance optimization. He is particularly interested in smart infrastructure, smart cities, and 5G and 6G environments. He believes that connectivity is a utility on par with water and electricity, and is crucial for driving digital transformation in society and businesses. His work aims to design future telecom systems that are resilient, inclusive, fair, and available to all.

Dr David Parker:
Dr David Parker is an Academy fellow, co-founder and former CEO of Luminosity, a company specializing in hollow fiber technology that was acquired by Microsoft in December last year. He is now part of the leadership team for Azure fiber. His work focuses on developing optical technologies, including new types of fiber optic cables, to enhance the performance of the core network infrastructure that underpins the internet. His recent work on hollow core fiber technology has the potential to revolutionize the telecommunications industry by providing faster data transmission speeds and lower latency.